hi folks it's that time of year again
for ice fishing and although in the
Green Bay area we don't have a lot of
ice the inland lakes do the bay does not
have ice yet but we're gonna get geared
up to head out for whitefish in a few
weeks I've got a trip plan with the
ladies from Wisconsin women fish and a
lot of them have been asking me how to
set up their rods with a slider so I
think that it's a good time right now
we've got three or four weeks before the
big trip let's talk about that and I'll
show you exactly how you're gonna do
that first of all you're going to want
to use monofilament line I've got six to
eight pound test whichever you prefer on
here the reason I have such a heavy
grade line is because this small treble
hook which you can use a number 12 or
number 14 is going to literally slide up
and down on the line so it's going to
cause a little bit of friction and a
little bit of wear and tear so the first
thing that you're going to need to do is
this the eye of your treble hook you're
going to take the eye of the treble hook
you're going to feed the line directly
through the eye one time you're going to
come back around and go right through
the eye of that hook one more time no
this is a technique that I have been
using for probably I would say close to
12 to 14 years looks like I got it
caught on there now you'll see that the
hook is on the line and all you do
literally is slide it right up the line
now it does not matter whether this hook
is sideways straight up and down as long
as it's on the line that's all you need
to worry about white fish have very
small mouths and that's the reason
behind using the very small treble the
next thing I like to do is tie on a
swivel now you're gonna need a small
swivel color preference is up to you I
prefer to use the black ones we're
usually fishing over clam beds maybe on
some rocks and I really need to create
some noise down there on the bottom
go ahead and tie your swivel on if you
prefer to use a polymer not feel free to
do so
whichever knot you're more comfortable
with small swivel that's the next step
this is very simple technique doesn't
take a lot to do but if you do are going
to use it make sure you do it before you
head out on the ice there we go we've
got our slider on we've got our swivel
on we're gonna cut the tag line off now
next thing I'm going to want to do is
I'm going to want to put some sort of
tackle on here now there's many things
that you can use you can use a bail
sinker if you want to create the noise
or if you want to put another bait on
the bottom which is exactly what I'm
going to do it this time and I'm going
to use a Northland tackle macho minnow
on the bottom this one does have a
treble hook on it if you want to you can
switch that treble over to a single hook
and I'm going to show you exactly what I
did on another setup with that the
object here is to make sure that you're
anywhere from 12 inches to 10 inches
from your bait and this bait is going to
be slammed right on the bottom so there
you have it that's your slider hook
literally slides right up and down when
you catch a fish on a slider 90% of the
times it will slide right down to the
bottom you're going to have to slide it
back up once again that's why we use
that heavier grade line because it will
cause wear and tear on your line you may
have to retie cut some line off after
you catch about 30 or 40 or the white
fish especially if you get into those
big ones so that's all it takes to put a
slider on you get the white fish on real
easy hook set is all you need to do